.TH np 1 2016\-12\-02 1.3.1 npshell Usage
.SH Name
.PP
\fB\fCnp\fR \- Command line music queue manager
.SH Description
.PP
Keep a daemon running in the background. Add sounds to a queue. Let the daemon play the sweet music for you. All from the comfort of your own shell.
.PP
npshell repository
\[la]https://github.com/joelpurra/npshell/\[ra]
.SH Commands
.SS \fB\fCnp daemon [\-\-is\-running|\-\-stop|\-\-verbose]\fR
.PP
Play sounds in queue as soon as there are any. Can be controlled with \fB\fCnp start\fR and \fB\fCnp stop\fR, as well as the rest of the queue commands.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-is\-running\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Check if the daemon process has already started. Exits with \fB\fC0\fR if it has, \fB\fC1\fR otherwise.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-stop\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Stop daemon execution. Can be used during system shutdown, but isn't part of everyday usage.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-verbose\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Output paths to the sounds as they play.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\fBExamples\fP
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Start the daemon, let it run in the background.
# Should be done at user login.
np daemon \-\-is\-running || ( np daemon & )
.fi
.RE
.SS \fB\fCnp notify [\-\-is\-running|\-\-stop]\fR
.PP
Show notifications when the track changes, playback is started/stopped or the queue is empty.
If the sound has id3v2 tags, artist/album/title are shown.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-is\-running\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Check if the daemon process has already started. Exits with \fB\fC0\fR if it has, \fB\fC1\fR otherwise.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-stop\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Stop notification daemon execution. Can be used during system shutdown, but isn't part of everyday usage.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\fBExamples\fP
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Start the notification daemon, let it run in the background.
# Should be done at user login.
np notify \-\-is\-running || ( np notify & )
.fi
.RE
.SS \fB\fCnp\fR, \fB\fCnp now\fR\&.
.PP
Shows the sound currently playing.
.SS \fB\fCnp list\fR
.PP
See sounds currently in the queue.
.SS \fB\fCnp next\fR
.PP
Advance to the next sound in the queue.
.SS \fB\fCnp add [limit] [order] [path ...]\fR
.PP
Add some sounds to the queue.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Limit
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is 3.
.IP \(bu 2
You can also use "all".
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Order
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is "shuffle".
.IP \(bu 2
You can also use "in\-order".
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Path
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is \fB\fC$PWD\fR\&.
.IP \(bu 2
You can use paths
.IP \(bu 2
to sounds
.IP \(bu 2
to folders
.IP \(bu 2
or "\-" to read null\-delimited paths from stdin.
.RE
.RE
.PP
\fBExamples\fP
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Add the default number of shuffled sounds from the current folder.
np add
# Add a single sound to the queue.
np add path/to/sound.mp3
# Add 25 shuffled sounds from the current folder.
np add 25
# Add the first 2 sounds from the current folder.
np add 2 in\-order
# Add shuffled sounds from a folder, hierarchically.
np add path/to/folder/with/sounds/
# Add an album.
np add all in\-order "Jazz/My Favorite Album/"
# Add sounds by null\-delimited paths from stdin.
find . \-iname '*best of*.mp3' \-print0 | np add \-
# Add 10 shuffled sounds from the combined list of a single sound, stdin and a folder.
find . \-iname '*best of*.mp3' \-print0 | np add 10 path/to/sound.mp3 \- path/to/folder/with/sounds/
.fi
.RE
.SH More commands
.SS \fB\fCnp help [command]\fR
.PP
Show general help for \fB\fCnp\fR usage.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Command
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Show help about a specific command.
.RE
.RE
.SS \fB\fCnp start\fR
.PP
Let \fB\fCnp daemon\fR consume the sound queue.
.SS \fB\fCnp stop\fR
.PP
Don't let \fB\fCnp daemon\fR consume the sound queue.
.SS \fB\fCnp startstop\fR
.PP
Toggle playback by alternating between \fB\fCnp start\fR and \fB\fCnp stop\fR\&.
.SS \fB\fCnp clear\fR
.PP
Empty the queue.
.SS \fB\fCnp clean\fR
.PP
Remove non\-existant files from queue.
.SS \fB\fCnp history\fR
.PP
Show the 999 most recently played sounds.
.SS \fB\fCnp index [\-\-force|\-\-clean[ \-\-recursive]]\fR
.PP
Create a file with a cached list of all sounds in the current folder, including subfolders.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-force\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Recreate the index file even if it already exists.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-clean\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Remove index files.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fC\-\-recursive\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Perform the action in subfolders.
.RE
.RE
.SS \fB\fCnp doctor\fR
.PP
Display configuration, runtime and status values.
.SH Configuration
.PP
Settings are read from \fB\fC~/.np/config.sh\fR\&. The format is one \fB\fCsetting=value\fR per line.
.SS \fB\fCconfigNumsounds\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is 3.
.IP \(bu 2
Set the number of sounds \fB\fCnp add\fR adds unless overridden.
.RE
.SS \fB\fCconfigOrder\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is "shuffle".
.IP \(bu 2
The order \fB\fCnp add\fR adds files in.
.IP \(bu 2
Can also be "in\-order".
.RE
.SS \fB\fCconfigDebug\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is "false".
.IP \(bu 2
Enable debug output.
.RE
.SS \fB\fCconfigUseCache\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is "true".
.IP \(bu 2
Automatically generate index files per folder sounds are loaded from. See \fB\fCnp index\fR\&.
.RE
.SS \fB\fCconfigFollowSymlinks\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Default is "false".
.IP \(bu 2
Follow sound file symlinks before passing the path to the external player.
.RE
